# Wemos D1 mini pro SHT30
Wemos D1 mini Pro & SHT30 shield using Arduino and MQTT.

The goal is to have the SHT30 connected to the internet through wifi and publish temperature/humidity values on a MQTT broker. 
This code should work with any ESP8266 board and any MQTT broker.

## Requirements

### Hardware
* Wemos D1 mini (pro or any ESP8266 board)
* Wemos SHT30 shield
* Micro USB to computer cable
* Computer

### Software
* Arduino IDE
* MQTT Broker (Your own one like Mosquitto: https://mosquitto.org/download/ or any hosted MQTT broker provider)

## How to install

### Hardware
It is preferable not to connect the SHT30 shield directly on top of the D1 mini because the heat generated by the D1 mini will affect the measured temparature.

You can use wires to easily connect the following pins: D1,D2,GND and 3V3 from the D1 mini to the SHT30 shield.

Connect the D1 mini to the computer through USB.

### Software
1. To install the Wemos D1 mini in board manager in Arduino IDE go to: File, Preferences, Additional boards manager URLs and add this URL: http://arduino.esp8266.com/stable/package_esp8266com_index.json
2. To install the ESP8266 libraries in Arduino IDE go to: Sketch, Include Library, Manage Libraries and type ESP8266 in the text field. Install at least ESP8266 and ESP8266WiFi.
3. Then to install the PubSubClient library, type PubSubClient and install this library.
4. Install Wemos SHT3x Arduino library by following the intructions here: https://github.com/wemos/WEMOS_SHT3x_Arduino_Library
5. Clone this repo in your Arduino Sketchbook folder (you can check in your preferences where it is located). Customize the file Wemos_D1_mini_pro_SHT30.ino with your own credentials and upload to your board to try it.
